**Title:** Day 12 - THM 2022
**Tags:** [[Advent Cyber 2022]]
**Topics:** #Malware_Analysis #THM_Advent_2022 

---
# Key Malware Behaviors
Software created to harm a computer or an entire network. Threat actors develop malware to achieve specific goals, such as infiltrating networks, breaching sensitive data, or disrupting operational services.
Common Behaviors:
-   **Network connections**: Malware tends to establish either external network connections or internal connections. External connections allow remote access or for downloading staged payloads from a threat actors' infrastructure. Meanwhile, internal connections allow for lateral movement, a technique used to extend access to other hosts or applications within the network.
-   **Registry key modifications**: Malware typically uses registry keys to establish persistence, a technique used by threat actors to discreetly maintain long-term access to a system despite disruptions. A good example is Registry Run Keys, which allows binaries to be automatically executed when a user logs in or the machine boots up.
-   **File manipulations**: Malware also tends to download (one of the common reasons to establish network connections) or create new files needed for its successful execution.

# Dangers of Analyzing Malware Samples
```ad-caution
Handling a malware sample is dangerous. Always consider precautions while analysing it.
```

```ad-info
-   Always assume that malware samples will infect your device; hence executing it is not always the first and only step in analysing it.
-   Only run the malware sample in a controlled environment that prevents potential compromise of unwanted assets.
-   It is always recommended to have your **sandbox,** which allows you have a worry-free execution of malware samples.
```

A **sandbox** is a controlled test environment that mimics a legitimate end-user working environment. It gives analysts a safe environment to execute malware samples and learn their behaviour. Lastly, having a ready sandbox prevents analysts from running malware samples in their workstations, which is highly dangerous and impractical for the possibility of unwanted impact.

# Static and Dynamic Analysis
